>> Hey, Brian. Hey, everyone out there.
>> Hey.
>> Thanks for watching live or catching the replay, if you will, of the unedited pure
100% blooper-filled recording of this Python Bytes. Shall we kick it off, Brian?
>> Sure, let's do it.
>> Let's do it, folks. Hello, and welcome to Python Bytes, where we deliver Python news
and headlines directly to your earbuds. This is episode 384, recorded May -- what month
is it? May 21st, 2024. I'm Michael Kennedy.
>> And I'm Brian Okken.
>> This episode is sponsored by Mailtrap, better email sending APIs. Check them out
at pythonbytes.fm/Mailtrap. Tell you more about them later. And you can connect with
us over on Fosstodon. We're all -- Mastodon in general, but we're all over on Fosstodon.
So find us there. And if you want to X, then you can connect to us over on X as well. Brian,
I'm not going to call it Twitter anymore. Do you know why?
>> Why?
>> When you go there, it now redirects Twitter to X instead of X to Twitter.
>> Oh, really?
>> It's like they've accepted their fate. They've accepted their fate. So at least for
the time being.
>> I said a friend of mine, like, get mad at me for unfollowing him on Twitter. And
I'm like, it wasn't just you, man. I don't follow anybody on Twitter.
>> Don't take it personally. Don't take it personally. Yeah. So people can find us there
as well, although more conversations on Mastodon. And check out the live show, if you would
like, pythonbytes.fm/live, usually Tuesdays at 10 a.m. Pacific time. And if you want an
artisanal, handcrafted, specialized, personal summary of what we talked about on the show,
just head on over to pythonbytes.fm, click newsletter right in the middle of the hero
section at the top, and put your email address there. We won't share it. It's just so that
we can talk to you about things that we're up to. So if that sounds awesome, do that.
But Brian, we're not going to be forceful about that. We're not going to overdo it,
are we? >> No. Yeah. Nice. Nice transition. So I'm
going to start by talking about Gitforce, actually. Adam Johnson wrote a blog post about
Git. This isn't specifically Python related, but I'm guessing a lot of you guys use Git.
>> I've seen a few people who do Python who use Git also. It's true.
>> So one of the things that happens is you've got your local repo that's not quite in sync
with the remote one. And if it's just you, and it somehow, when you push and it doesn't
work right, you do a push force, a --force. And it just says, no, I mean it. Take
it. That's not always what you want to do. So Adam Johnson wrote a post called force
push safely with force with lease and force if includes. Wow, these are verbose. I did
not know about either of these things. So I'm really glad that he wrote this up. The
idea is, and I don't know what that means. I don't know what with lease or if includes
means, but the gist of it is, is one of them will make sure that you have, oh, let's just
look at what he said. So if you try and sometimes you get an error message that said a note
about fast forwards and failed push, because the tip of your current branch is behind its
remote counterpart. So you're not up to date. So, and wait, before you ignore this, because
you think, oh, I only use my own repos and I don't, I'm never going to be in conflict.
I've finding this more and more with my own repositories and I'm the only one developing.
Why is that? It's because I've got CI tools that do things like update things for me.
And and if it passes, it goes through. And so therefore my local branch is not up to
date with my remote because there's stuff in CI doing things for me. That's a good thing,
but it causes this problem sometimes. And what we want to do is to make sure that we
pull or fetch all of the branches that we were going to be pushing to and make sure
that our local changes are merged correctly. And if we don't do that, a get push will fail.
So this, you can force it, but forcing will just overwrite your version with the one up
there. It's not really what you want to do. The the, so one of these, one of these flags
will make sure that you have at least fetched the branching question. So all in all
the commits that you've fetched, all of the commits that are involved so that it assumes
that you've looked at them. And then one of them makes sure that you have actually,
you've actually checked it out. So if you done, you did a get checkout and actually,
so that, and that would mean that would, I guess, assume that you have looked at, actually
looked at it, not just that it's on your computer, this fetch will pull everything down. So it's
on your computer, but a committing or checking it out will mean that you've actually had
it in there and you had at least the opportunity to look at it. So, I'm definitely gonna,
and there was some comments to this blog post saying, that I usually, have a, a
shortcut assigned to this. And I'm not sure what the normal shortcut is for this, but
I'm definitely going to set this up to me, see if I can get this to happen automatically
or something.
So, yeah, this is interesting. It's new to me as well. And I'm certainly going to check
it out. So anyway, some get safety concerns. So, speaking of safety, how was your flight?
Is your flight safe back from PyCon?
My flight, my flight was great. Actually worked out pretty good. All the flights were full.
So it was like rubbing shoulders with strangers. I even got the bonus of being in the middle
seat one time. That was amazing. That was the flight that was delayed for an hour and
a half and waited on the tarmac instead of the terminal. So I got an extra time there
with people, but yeah, no, it was great. And yeah, let's, let's talk a little bit about
PyCon. So PyCon, PyCon was awesome. You know, there's a ton of people that I got to see
again and that was really special. A bunch of people I met and that was also amazing.
Just I just spent my time going around networking, learning what folks are up to both through
the expo floor and just from talking to others. And, you know, I say this all the time, but
to me, it's basically my geek holiday. So we missed you though, Brian, we missed you
this year.
I missed you guys. Yeah. A bunch of people asked about you, by the way, they're like,
"Hey, too bad he's not here." All right. Well, I did do a live Talk Python episode with Jody
Burchill and some other data science ladies there at the JetBrains booth. So thanks to
them for all the AV setup and I'll post that in a couple of weeks. And also the talks look
really good. I'm not always inspired by the PyCon talks and some of the Python, more regional
conference talks. But this year they looked quite good. So I'm really looking forward
to the YouTube version of them coming out whenever that happens. I think last year was
like three months or something. Pretty quick. No, just kidding. But eventually, whenever
they do come out, they'll be really good. So we'll talk more about that here when they
land. Right? Yeah. All right. Let's wrap this up with a rant. I highly recommend people
go. If you've never gone and you think that you might, you should definitely go. If you're
thinking that I'm not good enough at Python to go, you should definitely go. You'll make
connections. You'll get better at Python. People are super welcoming. But do you know
what was not welcome? The stupid mask policy, right? It was universally disliked. And I'm
sure there's one person out of several thousand that are like, "Michael, the only reason I
would come because of this." Yes, I know. But I'll tell you, I spoke to tons of people,
spoke to vendors. Everyone was there complaining about the mask. They're like, "Can we go outside
and just take this thing off for a minute so we can talk?" Or I lost my voice after
the first day and still had to do the podcast because it would be like, "What?" It was just
a loud... Everybody had masks on and it was like loud din because everyone was trying
to yell through them. I don't know. It was just a tremendous mistake. The only reason
I bring this up, not to rant because I've already done this rant. Hopefully people listening
for next year, people who are interested in going next year, speak to people in charge
and say, "Okay, the world is not like that anymore. Can we please just have a more coherent
policy?" Anyway, that's what my hope is.
We could do somewhere in the middle. If you feel like you might have a cough or something,
please try to keep your mask on.
Yeah. Yeah. 100%. I said this before and just for people who didn't catch it, I'm not anti-mask,
not anti-science, whatever. When I went on a trip recently, long trip, I thought maybe
I was getting sick. I wore my mask the whole time, even though no one around me did. A
super long flight and the airport and everything because I wanted to be considerate.
I don't care if other people want to wear a mask, that's great, but don't force this
weird policy onto everybody who generally doesn't think that they'd rather. It undermines
the networking aspect, both for the sponsors and expo, trying to talk to people and each
other. All right. Rant over, but please, fingers crossed for next year.
If you're out there and you agree with me, please let the folks know. You don't have
to email me. I've already had this conversation a lot, but it's just closing the loop in the
past. I feel like what I said before pretty much was how it was.
You know what, though, is quite awesome, Brian? I hinted at the top of the show, not that.
That's later. Mailtrap. Let's talk about Mailtrap real quick.
This episode is sponsored by Mailtrap, an email delivery platform that developers love.
An email sending solution with industry-best analytics, SMTP, and email API, as well as
SDKs for major programming languages and 24/7 human support. Try for free at mailtrap.io.
Indeed. Thank you, Mailtrap. All right. Over to you, Brian. What you got?
I'm going to talk about Git some more, actually.
Let's get it on.
I'm thinking about forking a project because you remember how projects used to have like
fork me on GitHub, little things on the top corner. They don't really do that anymore.
But we often think of, I mean, actually, I often think of contributing to an open source
project just in the sense of forking it just so that I can make modifications to contribute
back to the project. That's often how we, you create a fork, you create a branch on
your own fork, and then you contribute back to the project. That's how we do contributions.
But what if you want to have a long running fork of a project? And that's what I'm considering.
And I was thinking about strategies, how to do that, because I don't know.
And so I ran across this, a couple of blog posts from the Git folks. It's actually from
Leslie Dennington. Cool. There's a couple of posts called being friendly. So there's
being friendly, friendly forks, one on one, and there's being friendly strategies for
friendly fork management. And I think these are interesting because there's a lot of stuff
going on here. And there's, but not really, we'll go through them relatively quickly.
They picked some examples to think about. And I was thinking, I would really like to
know like from an example project and Git itself is a lovely example project because
Git has several forks and they have different policies. So there's a Git slash Git, which
is the main, wait, there's Git for Windows, for instance, there's Git, the base one, there's
Git for Windows Git, there's Microsoft Git, and there's GitHub Git. So there's four different
friendly forks off of that. Actually, it's not like, it's actually not like that. There's
the main Git, Git, and then there's a Git for Windows that's based off of that. And
then there's Microsoft Git, which is a fork of the Git for Windows. And then there's GitHub
Git, which is a separate branch fork from, anyway. Three forks on it and they have different
policies and it's interesting to look at them. And then, so if you talk about, look about
the different needs. So the first article talks about the different needs for the forks.
And then the second article talks about merging strategy. That's really where I wanted to
understand it because here's the idea. I'm going to fork a project and then I want to,
I want to regularly get updates from the parent project because I want to like maybe, and
this happens like for internal companies a lot. If I want to add on extra features that
are not there, they like, maybe I tried to contribute to them and they got rejected,
but I still need them so I can have a friendly fork, but I want to keep up to date with all
the changes. So how do you keep up to date? So one of the ways is, is from a, you take
a, what they call a merging rebase, which is, which is what Git for Windows does. And
the, I guess I'm not going to try to find all the, all the diagrams, but there's diagrams
in here too. But there's a, a merging rebases where you take, you kind of do a, like a,
a fake merge where you, where you, you say, I'm going to merge, but I'm actually only
going to take my changes. And then you, so that isolates just your changes and then you
rebase so that you can just take the new, the new space on the, on the upstream
one and then just apply all of your changes to it. It's a way to just do that. The second
way is a new branch and, and that, that'll allow you to just take, like the, the, the
Microsoft Git one does a new branch. So for each upstream new version, you just create
a new branch for that, like complete, completely do a new branch. And then, then you copy over
your changes from, from past changes onto the new changes. So you like start the branch
over again every time, almost. And then the other, the third one is just a traditional
merge, like Git, Git uses a traditional merge, but there's, there's a lot of noise in that.
And so they say that that works okay. Takes a lot of people and a lot of testing though,
and they often delay. So let's say I picked, I don't know, any, any project and for a major
release I'd maybe wait till like, wait a couple months or something or wait, whatever the
dot releases to make sure the, the, a couple of the bug fixes releases after the new features
came out and then merge them. So and then at the end which is great, I know this is
a lot of detail, but the great articles oh, there's a, there's a cool picture of the the
creating a new branch, completing a new branch and then merging your changes over. So there
are some great pictures in here. So the and then the, they also talked about like proactive
versus cautious, like how frequently you're going to merge. And this is just a really
good discussion of this is a lot of work guys. If you're really going to like maintain a
fork of a project, you just, just take it slow, make sure you know what you're doing
and know how many people you are there. So it talks about the different scenarios and
when, when you might or might want to not want to use different versions. And I think
like the final one says, if you're new to the fork game and want to keep it simple,
just do just two merges and do it be considerate. Maybe that's, that might be the easiest. And
I think they, I might go with this one to start with because, but I am intrigued by
the whole, like the merging rebase thing. That sounds neat too. Actually they all sound
cool. I might try all of them just to see how it goes, but it's just me. So that's I
might be crazy, but I breathe, bring this up because I'm a one because other people
might be considering like forking something for their own company use or, or just wanting
to possibly start a sister project for something. How it'd be a slightly different. How do you
go about that? So these are great articles, but also if I'm missing something, if this
is not a great reference for this and the other people have other tools around let me
know. By the way, the whole forking rebase thing, there was a script involved here. So
they have, they like shared the script that they use for doing this. And then talked about
some cool merging like a deficit. There's a different merge tool that they used for
code reviews and stuff. So anyway,
very cool. This is some advanced to get stuff right here, but you can easily get yourself
in trouble if you fork our repo. And even if you intend to make changes back and you
change the brand, the branch that is being updated on the remote or the original repository,
you can end up with a merge conflicts. It's almost always seems like a good idea to have
kind of a separate branch where you work and something that syncs with the project. Right.
And so that's kind of like that. Plus like, then what do you do to kind of keep it in
sync? Cause you're definitely going to end up with conflicts if your intention is not
to keep it in sync by pushing your changes back to it. Right.
The other thing that I want to point out that wasn't in this article is tags are completely
separate. I know that tags are part of the get repository, but they don't come automatically.
So and that's often, I don't know the reason it's convenient that they don't come. It's
both convenient and painful because the new project will have its own versioning scheme
possibly. But if you want the same versioning scheme, you have to do that separately. You
need to make sure that you're pulling the tags as well. So yeah, a lot to consider.
Yeah. All right. Let's talk about TAC. Not a super
popular project yet, but pretty awesome. Let's see. It's about a month old, I would say.
No, four months old is how old it is. So this is a project that lets you understand the
architecture and actually not just understand, let you specify the architecture of your application
and enforce it through a linting sort of thing. Okay. So let's see what they say here. Python
tool to enforce modular design. So maybe the best way, Brian, would be to like look at
this little thing as people are watching. You can see there's a little video demo, which
is great. So what it will do is it will show you, you set up some config files and you
say, "I have these parts of my application, these modules or these packages, and I want
to control how they interact with each other." So if I say, "This stuff makes up a data layer
here and this stuff makes up an API layer," you might say that the API layer and the data
layer are not allowed to talk to each other. Only stuff that consumes either of them can
coordinate across them. So for example, in the API section, shouldn't import something
from the data section and vice versa. You want them to be independent so that potentially
they're easier to test, they're easier to change. You know if I change this part, it's
only going to affect the thing itself and the stuff that I explicitly understand to
be using it. It doesn't become sort of a spider web of everything's connected to everything
as much as it can in Python because circular dependencies are an issue. But still, that's
kind of the idea. So you just install it and you have to add a package and it'll let you
take through and specify that. Or you can just come up with a YAML file, a package.yaml,
and then you give it a tag like, "This one is a core and this one is a DB and this one
is a utils." And then at the root, you come up with a tack.yaml that says, "The core depends
upon DB and utils." So the core can import from DB and utils but not vice versa. The
DB depends on utils and utils shouldn't be importing from other places in your application.
And then you can run it, CLI tool against your app like tack check and it tells you
that there's some import that's breaking the rules that you've laid out. So the other thing,
yeah, go ahead. The other thing that's interesting is it allows you to define a public API. You
can say, "These things I would like you to be able to use when you use my package." But
this other stuff is internal stuff and I make zero promises about it. So please don't use
it. I know you could because of Python but don't. And it'll enforce that as well. It'll
say like you're trying to use something that I'm explicitly trying to say, don't use. So
I don't think this is useful for every app but if you've got different people working
on it and you want to be real careful about your architecture, it's worth checking out.
I think this is, I am going to check this out. It's not just like bad architecture or
something. You might bring some new people onto a team or it might help people get used
to a project and the rules around it easier if you aren't allowed to do stuff.
Yeah, that's a pretty good point.
So how does it stop it? Does it test the thing or is it just-
It just prints a warning.
Stop it at runtime?
It's like the linter would fail. So it's like a linter error but I mean it doesn't actually,
there's no runtime checks. So no runtime checks.
Okay.
Yeah.
All right. Cool.
Yeah, but you can set it up as a pre-commit hook in which case I guess you couldn't commit
if you wanted. But yeah, I kind of like the idea of the public API. I know it looks like
you should use that but there's actually this other thing that does more checks and brings
in some other stuff and adds versioning and you should use that function to make this
change, don't like directly, I don't know, whatever, interact with something, right?
Yeah.
Cool. All right. Extra time. What do you got?
I got I guess one extra. I noticed that the pedantic guys or pedantic people I should
say have something they're trying to sell now. So being a company you have to make some
money somehow, which is good. But they came up with a tool called log fire and it just
looks fun. So it's advertised as uncomplicated observability from the team behind pedantic.
They have an observability platform to look at like logging and other things. And it's
actually I haven't dug into it too much but it looks pretty slick. Anyway, right now the
pricing model is free for everybody but they're going to eventually charge people.
You could know how much they're going to charge you if you had some of that like cool fake
futuristic image capabilities. Zoom, enhance, zoom, enhance, because they have the blurry
pricing.
Yeah. Well, the website is beautiful.
Oh, it's not. I don't know. I don't know what it is. Yeah. Yeah, it does look good.
Do you have any extras?
Well, I just quick comment on this. What I think is interesting about log fire and again,
congrats to Samuel and team over there. I saw those folks at PyCon as well. There's
a lot of observability platforms that you can add to different Python stacks and other
stacks as well. But what's kind of interesting about this is it's super focused on specific
frameworks to add more observability than normal to them, I guess. So for example, you'd
say log fire dot instrument, psycopg or log fire dot instrument, FastAPI, and it
gets like really deep understanding of what that thing is doing. It gives you reports
around it rather than just a web request or I saw you talk to a file or an API or something,
you know? Yeah. Yeah. I do have a couple of extras. Let's see. The getting started with
an LP and spaCy course by Vincent Vommerdam. He is he and I decided we're going to do a
10% on the course for the month of May 10% off. So if you would like to take this course
and save a little bit, you've got nine, 10 days to do so. If you listen to this right
away, right? Basically during May 2024, you can save 10%. So put the link in the show
notes. Check out getting started with NLP and spaCy. Super cool. Super cool one. And
I feel like I might have had another. I go with no, that's my only only my only extra.
And I saw we both put a joke in, but let's let's do your joke next week. I'll do this
joke this week. Okay. Okay. So to do my joke next. Yeah. All right. So I was actually listening
to a book called Company of One from Paul Jarvis. Excellent book. I'm actually listening
to it the second time now. I'm really enjoying it. Anyway, he talked about one of the one
of the people he talked about was somebody that runs actually Tom Fishbourne runs a company
called market toonist. And here's a cartoon from market toonist that I actually really
love. It's the evolution. One sec. I don't see your screen anymore. You don't see it?
No. Okay. You just have to tell it to most people listen anyway. Okay. Evolution of smart
products. If I were to buy a toaster first, there's the toaster. It makes toasts. I mean,
you've got wifi enabled, makes toast after making you wait for a firmware update, data
driven toaster makes toast by by watching how you like toast. So watches you toast as
a service makes toast for 599 a month. Ad supported toaster makes toast and lets you
know that Smuckers is on sale. And then there's the AI toaster toast. I'm afraid I can't do
that Dave. I can't do that Dave. Oh, you do it good. How? Goodbye, Dave. Goodbye, Dave.
I love it. I love it. Yeah, that's a really good one. Anyway, the market is I'm not really
it's, he's got a great company. There's a couple other ones. The one I really, one of
them I really related to. Anyway, there's a lot of thoughts I related to and enjoyed
his stuff. So cool. Awesome. Yeah. Very funny one. Good stuff over there. So nice find.
All right. Well, I think that is it for the week. Brian, thank you. And thank you. Yeah.
Thanks everyone for listening. See y'all later. Bye.